: 
async def main (): await asyncio . gather ( run ( 'ls /zzz' ), run ( 'sleep 1; echo "hello"' )) asyncio . run ( main ()) 
See also the Examples subsection. 
Creating Subprocesses ¶ 
async asyncio. create_subprocess_exec ( program , * args , stdin = None , stdout = None , stderr = None , limit = None , ** kwds ) ¶ 
Create a subprocess. 
The limit argument sets the buffer limit for StreamReader wrappers for stdout and stderr (if subprocess.PIPE is passed to stdout and stderr arguments). 
Return a Process instance. 
See the documentation of loop.subprocess_exec() for other
parameters. 
If the process object is garbage collected while the process is still
running, the child process will be killed. 
Changed in version 3.10: Removed the loop parameter. 
async asyncio. create_subprocess_shell ( cmd , stdin = None , stdout = None , stderr = None , limit = None , ** kwds ) ¶ 
Run the cmd shell command. 
The limit argument sets the buffer limit for StreamReader wrappers for stdout and stderr (if subprocess.PIPE is passed to stdout and stderr arguments). 
Return a Process instance. 
See the documentation of loop.subprocess_shell() for other
parameters. 
If the process object is garbage collected while the process is still
running, the child process will be killed. 
Important 
It is the application’s responsibility to ensure that all whitespace and
special characters are quoted appropriately to avoid shell injection vulnerabilities. The shlex.quote() function can be used to properly
escape whitespace and special shell characters in strings that are going
to be used to construct shell commands. 
Changed in version 3.10: Removed the loop parameter. 
Note 
Subprocesses are available for Windows if a ProactorEventLoop is
used. See Subprocess Support on Windows for details. 
See also 
asyncio also has the following low-level APIs to work with subprocesses: loop.subprocess_exec() , loop.subprocess_shell() , loop.connect_read_pipe() , loop.connect_write_pipe() ,
as well as the Subprocess Transports and Subprocess Protocols . 
Constants ¶ 
asyncio.subprocess. PIPE ¶ 
Can be passed to the stdin , stdout or stderr parameters. 
If PIPE is passed to stdin argument, the Process.stdin attribute
will point to a StreamWriter instance. 
If PIPE is passed to stdout or stderr arguments, the Process.stdout and Process.stderr attributes will point to StreamReader instances. 
asyncio.subprocess. STDOUT ¶ 
Special value that can be used as the stderr argument and indicates
that standard error should be redirected into standard output. 
asyncio.subprocess. DEVNULL ¶ 
Special value that can be used as the stdin , stdout or stderr argument
to process creation functions. It indicates that the special file os.devnull will be used for the corresponding subprocess stream. 
Interacting with Subprocesses ¶ 
Both create_subprocess_exec() and create_subprocess_shell() functions return instances of the Process class. Process is a high-level
wrapper that allows communicating with subprocesses and watching for
their completion. 
class asyncio.subprocess. Process ¶ 
An object that wraps OS processes created by the create_subprocess_exec() and create_subprocess_shell() functions. 
This class is designed to have a similar API to the subprocess.Popen class, but there are some
notable differences: 
unlike Popen, Process instances do not have an equivalent to
the poll() method; 
the communicate() and wait() methods don’t have a timeout parameter: use the wait_for() function; 
the Process.wait() method
is asynchronous, whereas subprocess.Popen.wait() method
is implemented as a blocking busy loop; 
the universal_newlines parameter is not supported. 
This class is not thread safe . 
See also the Subprocess and Threads section. 
async wait ( ) ¶ 
Wait for the child process to terminate. 
Set and return the returncode attribute. 
Note 
This method can deadlock when using stdout=PIPE or stderr=PIPE and the child process generates so much output
that it blocks waiting for the OS pipe buffer to accept
more data. Use the communicate() method when using pipes
to avoid this condition. 
async communicate ( input = None ) ¶ 
Interact with process: 
send data to stdin (if input is not None ); 
closes stdin ; 
read data from stdout and stderr , until EOF is reached; 
wait for process to terminate. 
The optional input argument is the data ( bytes object)
that will be sent to the child process. 
Return a tuple (stdout_data, stderr_data) . 
If either BrokenPipeError or ConnectionResetError exception is raised when writing input into stdin , the
exception is ignored. This condition occurs when the process
exits before all data are written into stdin . 
If it is desired to send data 