 process is waited for. 
with Popen ([ "ifconfig" ], stdout = PIPE ) as proc : log . write ( proc . stdout . read ()) 
Popen and the other functions in this module that use it raise an auditing event subprocess.Popen with arguments executable , args , cwd , and env . The value for args may be a single string or a list of strings, depending on platform. 
Changed in version 3.2: Added context manager support. 
Changed in version 3.6: Popen destructor now emits a ResourceWarning warning if the child
process is still running. 
Changed in version 3.8: Popen can use os.posix_spawn() in some cases for better
performance. On Windows Subsystem for Linux and QEMU User Emulation,
Popen constructor using os.posix_spawn() no longer raise an
exception on errors like missing program, but the child process fails
with a non-zero returncode . 
Exceptions ¶ 
Exceptions raised in the child process, before the new program has started to
execute, will be re-raised in the parent. 
The most common exception raised is OSError . This occurs, for example,
when trying to execute a non-existent file. Applications should prepare for OSError exceptions. Note that, when shell=True , OSError will be raised by the child only if the selected shell itself was not found.
To determine if the shell failed to find the requested application, it is
necessary to check the return code or output from the subprocess. 
A ValueError will be raised if Popen is called with invalid
arguments. 
check_call() and check_output() will raise CalledProcessError if the called process returns a non-zero return
code. 
All of the functions and methods that accept a timeout parameter, such as run() and Popen.communicate() will raise TimeoutExpired if
the timeout expires before the process exits. 
Exceptions defined in this module all inherit from SubprocessError . 
Added in version 3.3: The SubprocessError base class was added. 
Security Considerations ¶ 
Unlike some other popen functions, this library will not
implicitly choose to call a system shell. This means that all characters,
including shell metacharacters, can safely be passed to child processes.
If the shell is invoked explicitly, via shell=True , it is the application’s
responsibility to ensure that all whitespace and metacharacters are
quoted appropriately to avoid shell injection vulnerabilities. On some platforms , it is possible
to use shlex.quote() for this escaping. 
On Windows, batch files ( *.bat or *.cmd ) may be launched by the
operating system in a system shell regardless of the arguments passed to this
library. This could result in arguments being parsed according to shell rules,
but without any escaping added by Python. If you are intentionally launching a
batch file with arguments from untrusted sources, consider passing shell=True to allow Python to escape special characters. See gh-114539 for additional discussion. 
Popen Objects ¶ 
Instances of the Popen class have the following methods: 
Popen. poll ( ) ¶ 
Check if child process has terminated. Set and return returncode attribute. Otherwise, returns None . 
Popen. wait ( timeout = None ) ¶ 
Wait for child process to terminate. Set and return returncode attribute. 
If the process does not terminate after timeout seconds, raise a TimeoutExpired exception. It is safe to catch this exception and
retry the wait. 
Note 
This will deadlock when using stdout=PIPE or stderr=PIPE and the child process generates enough output to a pipe such that
it blocks waiting for the OS pipe buffer to accept more data.
Use Popen.communicate() when using pipes to avoid that. 
Note 
When the timeout parameter is not None , then (on POSIX) the
function is implemented using a busy loop (non-blocking call and short
sleeps). Use the asyncio module for an asynchronous wait: see asyncio.create_subprocess_exec . 
Changed in version 3.3: timeout was added. 
Popen. communicate ( input = None , timeout = None ) ¶ 
Interact with process: Send data to stdin. Read data from stdout and stderr,
until end-of-file is reached. Wait for process to terminate and set the returncode attribute. The optional input argument should be
data to be sent to the child process, or None , if no data should be sent
to the child. If streams were opened in text mode, input must be a string.
Otherwise, it must be bytes. 
communicate() returns a tuple (stdout_data, stderr_data) .
The data will be strings if streams were opened in text mode; otherwise,
bytes. 
Note that if you want to send data to the process’s stdin, you need to create
the Popen object with stdin=PIPE . Similarly, to get anything other than None in the result tuple, you need to give stdout=PIPE and/or stderr=PIPE too. 
If the process does not