n-Markdown 3.10.2 documentation » 
Library Reference » 
Using Markdown as a Python Library ¶ 
First and foremost, Python-Markdown is intended to be a python library module
used by various projects to convert Markdown syntax into HTML. 
The Basics ¶ 
To use markdown as a module: 
import markdown
html = markdown.markdown(your_text_string) 
The Details ¶ 
Python-Markdown provides two public functions ( markdown.markdown and markdown.markdownFromFile ) both of which wrap the
public class markdown.Markdown . If you’re processing one
document at a time, these functions will serve your needs. However, if you need
to process multiple documents, it may be advantageous to create a single
instance of the markdown.Markdown class and pass multiple documents through
it. If you do use a single instance though, make sure to call the reset method appropriately ( see below ). 
markdown.markdown(text [, **kwargs]) ¶ 
Warning 
The Python-Markdown library does not sanitize its HTML output. If
you are processing Markdown input from an untrusted source, it is your
responsibility to ensure that it is properly sanitized. For more
information see Sanitizing HTML Output . 
The following options are available on the markdown.markdown function: 
text 
The source Unicode string. (required) 
Important 
Python-Markdown expects a Unicode string as input (some simple ASCII binary strings may work only by
coincidence) and returns output as a Unicode string. Do not pass binary strings to it! If your input is
encoded, (e.g. as UTF-8), it is your responsibility to decode it. For example: 
with open("some_file.txt", "r", encoding="utf-8") as input_file:
 text = input_file.read()
html = markdown.markdown(text) 
If you want to write the output to disk, you must encode it yourself: 
with open("some_file.html", "w", encoding="utf-8", errors="xmlcharrefreplace") as output_file:
 output_file.write(html) 
extensions 
A list of extensions. 
Python-Markdown provides an API for third parties to
write extensions to the parser adding their own additions or changes to the
syntax. A few commonly used extensions are shipped with the markdown
library. See the extension documentation for a
list of available extensions. 
The list of extensions may contain instances of extensions and/or strings
of extension names. 
extensions=[MyExtClass(), 'myext', 'path.to.my.ext:MyExtClass'] 
Note 
The preferred method is to pass in an instance of an extension. Strings
should only be used when it is impossible to import the Extension Class
directly (from the command line or in a template). 
When passing in extension instances, each class instance must be a subclass
of markdown.extensions.Extension and any configuration options should be
defined when initiating the class instance rather than using the extension_configs keyword. For example: 
from markdown.extensions import Extension
class MyExtClass(Extension):
 # define your extension here...
markdown.markdown(text, extensions=[MyExtClass(option='value')]) 
If an extension name is provided as a string, the string must either be the
registered entry point of any installed extension or the importable path
using Python’s dot notation. 
See the documentation specific to an extension for the string name assigned
to an extension as an entry point. Simply include the defined name as
a string in the list of extensions. For example, if an extension has the
name myext assigned to it and the extension is properly installed, then
do the following: 
markdown.markdown(text, extensions=['myext']) 
If an extension does not have a registered entry point, Python’s dot
notation may be used instead. The extension must be installed as a
Python module on your PYTHONPATH. Generally, a class should be specified in
the name. The class must be at the end of the name and be separated by a
colon from the module. 
Therefore, if you were to import the class like this: 
from path.to.module import MyExtClass 
Then load the extension as follows: 
markdown.markdown(text, extensions=['path.to.module:MyExtClass']) 
If only one extension is defined within a module and the module includes a makeExtension function which returns an instance of the extension, then
the class name is not necessary. For example, in that case one could do extensions=['path.to.module'] . Check the documentation for a specific
extension to determine if it supports this feature. 
When loading an extension by name (as a string), you can only pass in
configuration settings to the extension by using the extension_configs keyword. 
See Also 
See the documentation of the Extension API for
assistance in creating extensions. 
extension_configs 
A dictionary of configuration settings for extensions. 
Any 