I, not Android. 
Added in version 3.2. 
os. putenv ( key , value , / ) ¶ 
Set the environment variable named key to the string value . Such
changes to the environment affect subprocesses started with os.system() , popen() or fork() and execv() . 
Assignments to items in os.environ are automatically translated into
corresponding calls to putenv() ; however, calls to putenv() don’t update os.environ , so it is actually preferable to assign to items
of os.environ . This also applies to getenv() and getenvb() , which
respectively use os.environ and os.environb in their implementations. 
See also the os.reload_environ() function. 
Note 
On some platforms, including FreeBSD and macOS, setting environ may
cause memory leaks. Refer to the system documentation for putenv() . 
Raises an auditing event os.putenv with arguments key , value . 
Changed in version 3.9: The function is now always available. 
os. setegid ( egid , / ) ¶ 
Set the current process’s effective group id. 
Availability : Unix, not WASI, not Android. 
os. seteuid ( euid , / ) ¶ 
Set the current process’s effective user id. 
Availability : Unix, not WASI, not Android. 
os. setgid ( gid , / ) ¶ 
Set the current process’ group id. 
Availability : Unix, not WASI, not Android. 
os. setgroups ( groups , / ) ¶ 
Set the list of supplemental group ids associated with the current process to groups . groups must be a sequence, and each element must be an integer
identifying a group. This operation is typically available only to the superuser. 
Availability : Unix, not WASI. 
Note 
On macOS, the length of groups may not exceed the
system-defined maximum number of effective group ids, typically 16.
See the documentation for getgroups() for cases where it may not
return the same group list set by calling setgroups(). 
os. setns ( fd , nstype = 0 ) ¶ 
Reassociate the current thread with a Linux namespace.
See the setns(2) and namespaces(7) man pages for more
details. 
If fd refers to a /proc/ pid /ns/ link, setns() reassociates the
calling thread with the namespace associated with that link,
and nstype may be set to one of the CLONE_NEW* constants to impose constraints on the operation
( 0 means no constraints). 
Since Linux 5.8, fd may refer to a PID file descriptor obtained from pidfd_open() . In this case, setns() reassociates the calling thread
into one or more of the same namespaces as the thread referred to by fd .
This is subject to any constraints imposed by nstype ,
which is a bit mask combining one or more of the CLONE_NEW* constants ,
e.g. setns(fd, os.CLONE_NEWUTS | os.CLONE_NEWPID) .
The caller’s memberships in unspecified namespaces are left unchanged. 
fd can be any object with a fileno() method, or a raw file descriptor. 
This example reassociates the thread with the init process’s network namespace: 
fd = os . open ( "/proc/1/ns/net" , os . O_RDONLY ) os . setns ( fd , os . CLONE_NEWNET ) os . close ( fd ) 
Availability : Linux >= 3.0 with glibc >= 2.14. 
Added in version 3.12. 
See also 
The unshare() function. 
os. setpgrp ( ) ¶ 
Call the system call setpgrp() or setpgrp(0, 0) depending on
which version is implemented (if any). See the Unix manual for the semantics. 
Availability : Unix, not WASI. 
os. setpgid ( pid , pgrp , / ) ¶ 
Call the system call setpgid() to set the process group id of the
process with id pid to the process group with id pgrp . See the Unix manual
for the semantics. 
Availability : Unix, not WASI. 
os. setpriority ( which , who , priority ) ¶ 
Set program scheduling priority. The value which is one of PRIO_PROCESS , PRIO_PGRP , or PRIO_USER , and who is interpreted relative to which (a process identifier for PRIO_PROCESS , process group identifier for PRIO_PGRP , and a
user ID for PRIO_USER ). A zero value for who denotes
(respectively) the calling process, the process group of the calling process,
or the real user ID of the calling process. priority is a value in the range -20 to 19. The default priority is 0;
lower priorities cause more favorable scheduling. 
Availability : Unix, not WASI. 
Added in version 3.3. 
os. setregid ( rgid , egid , / ) ¶ 
Set the current process’s real and effective group ids. 
Availability : Unix, not WASI, not Android. 
os. setresgid ( rgid , egid , sgid , / ) ¶ 
Set the current process’s real, effective, and saved group ids. 
Availability : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not macOS, not iOS. 
Added in version 3.2. 
os. setresuid ( ruid , euid , suid , / ) ¶ 
Set the current process’s real, effective, and saved user ids. 
Availability : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not macOS, not iOS. 
Added in version 3.2. 
os. setreuid ( ruid , euid , / ) ¶ 
Set the current process’s real and effective user ids. 
